# Google BigQuery Output Port Template

This documentation describes the details and parameters required to create a Google BigQuery Output Port within the Witboost platform.

### Prerequisites

A System should already exist in order to attach the new components to it.

### Component Basic Information

This section includes the basic information that any Component of Witboost must have:

- **Name**: Required name used for display purposes on your System.
- **Description**: A short description to help others understand what this Output Port is for.
- **Domain**: The domain of the System this Output Port belongs to. Be sure to choose it correctly as it is a fundamental part of the Output Port and cannot be changed afterwards.
- **Parent**: The System this Output Port belongs to; be sure to choose the right one.
- **Identifier**: Unique ID for this new entity inside the domain. It will be automatically filled for you.
- **Development group**: Development group of this System. It will be automatically filled for you.
- **Depends on**: If you want your Output Port to depend on other components from the System, you can choose this option (Optional).

*Example:*

| Field name            | Example value                                                                                          |
|-----------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Name**              | Google BigQuery Output Port                                                                            |
| **Description**       | Output Port that exposes information of this System to users and other systems.            |
| **Domain**            | domain:finance                                                                                         |
| **Parent**            | system:finance.tradingdp.0                                                                             |
| **Identifier**        | Will look something like this: *finance.trading.0.google-bigquery-output-port*                         |
| **Development Group** | Might look something like this: *group:datameshplatform* Depends on the System development group |

### Data Contract Schema

This section defines the schema of the data that will be exposed through the Google BigQuery view.

- **Column Definitions**: Defines the schema for the Google BigQuery view, including column names, descriptions, and data types.

*Example:*

| **Column Name** | **Description**     | **Data Type** | 
|-----------------|---------------------|---------------|
| id              | Unique identifier   | INT           | 
| name            | Name of the entity  | STRING        | 
| created_at      | Creation timestamp  | TIMESTAMP     |
| internal_value  | Value of the record | NUMERIC       |

Some data types might require more fields to be filled out.

### Output Port Deployment Information

This section defines the Google BigQuery project and dataset information, selecting the source table and giving the Output Port view a name.

- **Project ID**: Google BigQuery project ID where the target dataset is located
- **Dataset**: Dataset name containing the source table and where the view will be created. If not provided a value will be autogenerated like `<domainName>_<dataProductName>_v<dataProductMajorVersion>_<environment>`. (Optional)
- **Table name**: Name of the source table name the view will be targeting.
- **View name**: Name to be given to the view that will be exposed as Output Port

*Example:*

| Field name     | Example value                    |
|----------------|----------------------------------|
| **Project ID** | finance-project                  |
| **Dataset**    | finance_tradingdp_v1_development |
| **Table name** | source_table                     |
| **View name**  | consumable_view                  |

### Deployment Process

After this, the system will show you the summary of the template, and you can go back and edit or go ahead and create the Component.

After clicking on "Create" the registering of the Component will start. If no errors occur, it will go through the 3 phases (Fetching, Publishing, and Registering) and will provide you with links to the newly created Repository and the component in the Catalog.

**Be careful not to delete the `catalog-info.yml` and ensure that the project structure remains as given.**
